# Sorghum phenotypes using RGB, hyperspectral images

This study with sorghum images was a part of my MS thesis at UNL. I used RGB images to study relative growth rate (RGR) and water use efficiency (WUE) of a diverse panel of 300 sorghum plants of 30 genotypes, and hyperspectral images for chemical analysis of macronutrients and cell wall composition. Half of the plants from each genotype were subjected to drought stress, while the other half were left unstressed. I created models to estimate the shoot fresh and dry weights from plant projected area. RGR values for the drought-stressed plants were found to gradually lag behind the values for the unstressed plants whereas WUE values were highly variable with time. Significant effects of drought stress and genotype were observed for both RGR and WUE. Hyperspectral image data (546 nm to 1700 nm) were used for chemical analysis of macronutrients (N, P, and K), neutral detergent fiber (NDF), and acid detergent fiber (ADF) for plant samples separated into leaf and three longitudinal sections of the stem. The accuracy of the models built using the spectrometer data (350 nm to 2500 nm) of dried and ground biomass was found to be higher than the accuracy of models built using the image data. For the image data, the models for N(R2 = 0.66, RPD = 1.72), and P(R2=0.52, RPD = 1.46) were found to be satisfactory for quantitative analysis whereas the models for K, NDF, and ADF were not suitable for quantitative prediction. Models built after the separation of leaf and stem samples showed variation in the accuracy between the two groups. 