---
layout: post
title: Diversity Statement
excerpt: 
modified: 2/29/2016, 9:00:24
tags: [intro, beginner, jekyll, tutorial]
comments: true
category: blog
---

The research in the field of agricultural robotics aims to target two distinct requirements in the field. The first is the need to collect reliable data on the status of the crops, which is important not only for the optimization of field operations, but also for increasing the efficiency of the phenotyping process in plant breeding programs. This aspect requires the integration of novel sensing and data analysis techniques for the accurate interpretation of plant status. The second requirement is the automation of the field operations themselves, leading to a reduction in drudgery and an increase in the safety and efficiency of these operations. My research has focused on both these aspects of agricultural robotics, with studies encompassing multiple species of crops and trees.    

The major project for my PhD dissertation focused on the automation of controlled pollination in a tree breeding program focused on Pinus taeda. The manual application of pollen in female strobili isolated by paper bags is conducted using aerial work platforms; I developed a prototype for an automated aerial robotic system to carry pollen and deliver it to pre-installed bags over female strobili. The prototype used a quadcopter equipped with stereovision camera for perception, a 360ยบ LiDAR for obstacle avoidance, and a parallel manipulator with a gripper for actuation of the pollen injector into the bags. I worked on the design of a miniature pneumatic pollen injector that could be mounted on a weight-constrained environment of an aerial robot, and on the mechanical design of the manipulator system. A significant portion of the design process involved the creation of a software architecture for efficient control, navigation, and pollen delivery. The identification of the point of injection of pollen was conducted using computer vision techniques based on Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs).   

The aerial robotic system developed in this project is an intelligent system which incorporates the principles robotics, computer vision, and tree biology. It is the first aerial robotic system designed for controlled pollination, and the system has been thoroughly tested for reliable performance. In a broader sense, the system can be modified for multiple forestry applications, and since the hardware as well as the software architectures have been published as open-source resources, these will be useful for further research in the field. While working on this project, I have presented at the Annual International Meeting of the American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers (ASABE-AIM) for the past two years. I am also working on two manuscripts based on my work. The first manuscript describes the design and implementation of the pollinating device to be submitted to the journal Computers and Electronics in Agriculture. The second manuscript describes the overall system and I intend to publish it in the Journal of Field Robotics.    

In addition to my research in robotic platform development, a significant portion of my research work has been in the application of computer vision techniques for plant phenotyping. I have worked on the digital image-based phenotyping of maize and soybean for the characterization of leaf chemical properties, and have authored a publication based on this project published in Frontiers in Plant Science. Additionally, I have worked extensively in the application of hyperspectral imaging for plant phenotyping, including Zea mays, Glycine max, Sorghum bicolor, and loblolly pine. The phenotyping project on Pinus taeda focused on the detection of families resistant to fusiform rust disease using hyperspectral images of the seedlings. A series of computer vision techniques and machine learning algorithms were utilized to successfully classify families based on their resistance to Fusarium rust. I authored a publication in the journal PLOS One based on this project, and I also co-authored a publication in Biosystems Engineering.    
 
My research has focused on the nexus of technology and agriculture. As the field of technology makes rapid progress towards advanced sensors and greater processing power, there is a need for the synthesis of this knowledge to fulfill the requirements of breeding and growing plants. My future research will continue to focus on developing novel robotic systems for solving agricultural problems, especially using aerial manipulation for tasks suitable for automated aerial robots. I envision collaborating with plant biologists and fellow engineers to create more intelligent and efficient robots that will help us to produce enough for the present and future human population.
