---
layout: post
title: Teaching Statement
excerpt: 
modified: 2/29/2016, 9:00:24
tags: [intro, beginner, jekyll, tutorial]
comments: true
category: blog
---

I approach classroom instruction as an opportunity to deliver problem-solving strategies in engineering and robotics. 
I believe in problem-based learning with active participation of the students. I find that focusing on a problem and 
always keeping it on sight helps me to keep my thoughts and explanations coherent. This also
encourages students to simultaneously think about the fundamentals of the problem and about the broad
scope of the solutions being considered. For example, if I were teaching a class on modeling of a biological
system with differential equations, I would lead a discussion on a specific problem that requires this
approach of modeling, followed by a discussion on the solution to an actual numerical problem. In an
applied class such as this one, I would work together with students in class to formulate and solve an
example problem using spreadsheets or computer programming.    

As a teaching assistant for the class, I contributed to both lectures and laboratory sessions. In the
laboratory, my work consisted of designing modules with the faculty mentor, delivering instructions at the
beginning of class, working with students on problems, and grading their work. The laboratory exercises
were designed to demonstrate the use of sensors and control systems in biological systems, and much of
the lab work consisted of building electrical circuits and writing computer programs.    

In the classroom, I was responsible for one week of independent lectures for the semester. I prepared a
lecture on DC motors and their control and delivered it under faculty supervision. I was also responsible 
for helping students with their class project which required them to design and buildan automated drug 
injection system. I spent some of the most enjoyable hours of the teaching experience
with the students while building things, trouble-shooting problems, and learning things together.    


